Thank you, everybody.
Please have a seat.

Good afternoon.

I want to begin by thanking Prime Minister Abbott, the people of Brisbane, and the people of Australia for being such extraordinary hosts for the G20.
All the arrangements were terrific and, as always, the people of Australia could not have been friendlier and better organized.
So I very much appreciate everything that you have done.


We had a lot of good discussions during the course of the G20, but as our Australian friends say, this wasn’t just a “good old chinwag.”
I really love that expression.
(Laughter.)
It was a productive summit.
And so I want to thank Tony for his leadership, and the people of Brizzy truly did shine throughout this process with their hospitality.


This is the final day of a trip that has taken me across the Asia Pacific -- a visit that comes against the backdrop of America’s renewed economic strength.
The United States is in the longest stretch of uninterrupted private sector job growth in its history.
Over the last few years, we’ve put more people back to work than all the other advanced economies combined.
And this growing economic strength at home set the stage for the progress that we have made on this trip.
It’s been a good week for American leadership and for American workers.


We made important progress in our efforts to open markets to U.S. goods and to boost the exports that support American jobs.
We continue to make progress toward the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Our agreement with China to extend visas for business people, tourists and students is going to boost tourism, grow our two economies and create jobs for Americans and Chinese alike.
We also agreed with China to pursue a bilateral investment treaty, as well as agreeing on an approach to the Information Technology Agreement that is estimated would support some 60,000 American jobs.
And here at the G20, China committed to greater transparency on its economic data, including its foreign exchange reserves.
And this is a step toward the market-driven exchange rate that we’ve been pushing for because it would promote a level playing field for American businesses and American workers.


Here in Brisbane, all the G20 countries announced strategies to increase growth and put people back to work, including a new initiative to support jobs by building infrastructure.
Our nations made commitments that could bring another 100 million women into our collective workforce.
We took new steps toward strengthening our banks, closing tax loopholes for multinational companies, and stopping tax evaders and criminals from hiding behind shell companies.
And these were all very specific provisions.
These were not just goals that were set without any substance behind them.
We have made very concrete progress during the course of the last several G20 sessions in preventing companies from avoiding the taxes that they owe in their home countries, including the United States, and making sure that we’ve got a financial system that’s more stable and that can allow a bank to fail without taxpayers having to bail them out.


Meanwhile, the breakthrough the United States achieved with India this week allows for a resumption of talks on a global trade deal that would mean more growth and prosperity for all of us.


This week, we also took historic steps in the fight against climate change.
The ambitious new goal that I announced in Beijing will double the pace at which America reduces its carbon pollution while growing our economy and creating jobs, strengthening our energy security, and putting us on the path to a low carbon future.
Combined with China’s commitment -- China for the first time committed to slowing and then peaking and then reversing the course of its emissions -- we’re showing that there’s no excuse for other nations to come together, both developed and developing, to achieve a strong global climate agreement next year.


The $3 billion contribution to the Green Climate Fund that I announced yesterday will help developing nations deal with climate change, reduce their carbon pollution and invest in clean energy.
I want to commend, by the way, Prime Minister Abe and Japan for their $1.
5 billion pledge to the Fund.
And following the steps we’ve taken in the United States, many of the G20 countries agreed to work to improve the efficiency of heavy-duty vehicles, which would be another major step in reducing emissions.


And finally, I’m pleased that more nations are stepping up and joining the United States in the effort to end the Ebola epidemic in West Africa.
Coming on the heels of our Global Health Security Agenda in the United States, the G20 countries committed to helping nations like those in West Africa to build their capacity to prevent, detect and respond to future outbreaks before they become epidemics.


So from trade to climate change to the fight against Ebola, this was a strong week for American leadership.
And the results will be more jobs for the American people; historic steps towards a cleaner and healthier planet; and progress towards saving lives not just in West Africa, but eventually in other places.
If you ask me, I’d say that’s a pretty good week.
The American people can be proud of the progress that we’ve made.
I intend to build on that momentum when I return home tomorrow.


And with that, I am going to take a few questions.
I’ve got my cheat-sheet here