

Good afternoon.

 
I am here to announce that I will be leaving later today to attend two important meetings on two of the most pressing challenges of our times: advancing a fair globalization and accelerating climate action.
 
Tonight, I depart for the G20 Summit in Argentina, where I will stress the need for inclusive development that leaves no one behind – the core promise of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
 
From there, I will attend the Climate Conference in Poland – the so-called COP24.
 
These meetings come at a crucial moment.
 
Our world is obviously facing a crisis of confidence.
 
Those left behind by globalization are losing trust in governments and institutions.

 
Inequality is pervasive and increasing, especially within nations.

 
Trade disputes are escalating.
 
And an undercurrent of geopolitical tensions is adding further pressure to the global economy.

 
It is imperative that we address the root causes and work together to promote a fair globalization.

 
The Sustainable Development Goals are the blueprint for that fair globalization.

 
I hope leaders at the G20 will give it a strong push forward.
 
But let’s not forget that equity is not just a matter for this generation.
 We must think of generations to come.

 
At the moment, we are headed for a world of cataclysm and uncertainty due to climate disruption.

 
The world’s top scientists have warned that we have little time left to limit temperature rise to 1.5 degrees until the end of the century.
 
A UN Environment report just yesterday underlined that ambition must increase five-fold to stay within that limit.

 
And the World Meteorological Organization found that carbon dioxide in the atmosphere has increased to levels not seen in 3 million years.
 
Some may argue that you cannot fight climate change and have a good economy.
 I strongly disagree.
 In fact, the opposite is true.

 
The social, economic and environmental costs of climate change dwarf the costs of acting now.

 
Failure to act means more disasters and emergencies and air pollution that could cost the global economy as much as US$21 trillion by 2050.

 
On the other hand, ambitious climate action will not only slow temperature rise, it will be good for economies, for the environment and for public health.

 
According to the World Health Organization, more than 90 per cent of the world’s urban population breathes unsafe air.
 
Meeting the Paris Agreement commitments could save more than a million lives a year.
 
Climate solutions represent opportunity, and technology is on our side.
 They are wise investments in an equitable, prosperous and sustainable future.
 Green business truly is good business.
 
Now, the members of the G20 are responsible for more than three-quarters of greenhouse emissions.
 
Yet it is equally true that G20 members have the power to bend the emissions curve.

